README.md, before:

# AI-Driven Chatbot for Customer Support/E-commerce

An AI-powered chatbot system for customer support and e-commerce that understands user queries, retrieves answers from a database, and learns from interactions.

## Features

- User authentication (login/register)
- Real-time chat interface
- Natural language understanding with Rasa
- PostgreSQL database integration
- Order tracking and product lookup
- Conversation history
- Custom actions for database interaction

## Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: Streamlit 2.0+
- **Backend**: Flask 3.0+
- **NLP**: Rasa 3.6+
- **Database**: PostgreSQL
- **Python**: 3.10.11

## Project Structure

```
ai-chatbot/
├── backend/          # Flask API server
├── database/         # PostgreSQL database models and config
├── frontend/         # Streamlit web interface
├── nlp/              # Rasa NLP component
│   ├── actions/      # Custom actions for Rasa
│   ├── data/         # Training data
│   └── models/       # Trained models (generated)
└── run.py            # Application runner script
```

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10.11
- PostgreSQL 15
- pip (Python package manager)

### Installation

1. Open the project folder in your terminal or command prompt

2. Create a virtual environment:
   ```
   python -m venv venv
   # On Windows
   venv\Scripts\activate
   # On macOS/Linux
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. Install dependencies:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. Install Spacy language model:
   ```
   python -m spacy download en_core_web_md
   ```

5. Set up the environment variables:
   ```
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your configuration
   ```

6. Set up the database:
   ```
   # Create the PostgreSQL database
   createdb ai_chatbot_new
   
   # restore from backup
   psql -U postgres -d ai_chatbot_new -f database_backup.sql
   
   # Initialize the database
   python -m database.init_db
   ```

7. Train the Rasa model:
   ```
   cd nlp
   rasa train
   ```

## Running the Application

Use the run.py script to start all components automatically:

```
python run.py
```

This will start:
1. Flask backend server
2. Rasa server
3. Rasa actions server
4. Streamlit frontend

The application will be accessible at: http://localhost:8501

## API Documentation

### Authentication Endpoints

- `POST /api/auth/register` - Register a new user
- `POST /api/auth/login` - Authenticate user and get JWT token

### Conversation Endpoints

- `GET /api/conversations` - Get all conversations for current user
- `POST /api/conversations` - Create a new conversation
- `GET /api/conversations/{id}/messages` - Get messages for a conversation
- `POST /api/conversations/{id}/messages` - Add a message to a conversation

### Chat Endpoint

- `POST /api/chat` - Send a message to the chatbot and get a response

### Order Endpoints

- `GET /api/orders` - Get all orders for the current user
- `GET /api/orders/{order_number}` - Get details for a specific order
- `GET /api/orders/{order_number}/status` - Get status of a specific order

- `POST /api/orders/{order_number}/cancel` - Cancel a specific order

## Order Generation

Generate test orders using the provided API endpoint or command-line tool:

```bash
# Generate 5 orders for all active users
python backend/generate_orders.py --num-orders 5
```

Available options:
- `--user-ids`: IDs of users to generate orders for (default: all active users)
- `--num-orders`: Number of orders to generate per user (default: 1)
- `--status`: Order status (default: random)
- `--min-items`: Minimum number of items per order (default: 1)
- `--max-items`: Maximum number of items per order (default: 5)
- `--days-ago`: Generate orders from this many days ago until now (default: 30)

Commit message:

Update README with default database credentials and initialization instructions
- Added default usernames and passwords for easy access: padma (password), admin (password), and testuser (password).
- Clarified the database initialization step to specify that it should be run only if a fresh database is needed, enhancing setup instructions for new developers.

These changes improve the clarity of the README, making it easier for users to set up the database correctly.

README.md, after:

# AI-Driven Chatbot for Customer Support/E-commerce

An AI-powered chatbot system for customer support and e-commerce that understands user queries, retrieves answers from a database, and learns from interactions.

## Features

- User authentication (login/register)
- Real-time chat interface
- Natural language understanding with Rasa
- PostgreSQL database integration
- Order tracking and product lookup
- Conversation history
- Custom actions for database interaction

## Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: Streamlit 2.0+
- **Backend**: Flask 3.0+
- **NLP**: Rasa 3.6+
- **Database**: PostgreSQL
- **Python**: 3.10.11

## Project Structure

```
ai-chatbot/
├── backend/          # Flask API server
├── database/         # PostgreSQL database models and config
├── frontend/         # Streamlit web interface
├── nlp/              # Rasa NLP component
│   ├── actions/      # Custom actions for Rasa
│   ├── data/         # Training data
│   └── models/       # Trained models (generated)
└── run.py            # Application runner script
```

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10.11
- PostgreSQL 15
- pip (Python package manager)

### Installation

1. Open the project folder in your terminal or command prompt

2. Create a virtual environment:
   ```
   python -m venv venv
   # On Windows
   venv\Scripts\activate
   # On macOS/Linux
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. Install dependencies:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. Install Spacy language model:
   ```
   python -m spacy download en_core_web_md
   ```

5. Set up the environment variables:
   ```
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your configuration
   ```

6. Set up the database:
   ```
   # Create the PostgreSQL database
   createdb ai_chatbot_new
   
   # restore from backup
   psql -U postgres -d ai_chatbot_new -f database_backup.sql
   
   # Default username and passwords
   # username: padma pass: password
   # username: admin pass: password
   # username: testuser pass: password

   # Initialize the database (if not restored from the backup and need fresh db)
   python -m database.init_db
   ```

7. Train the Rasa model:
   ```
   cd nlp
   rasa train
   ```

## Running the Application

Use the run.py script to start all components automatically:

```
python run.py
```

This will start:
1. Flask backend server
2. Rasa server
3. Rasa actions server
4. Streamlit frontend

The application will be accessible at: http://localhost:8501

## API Documentation

### Authentication Endpoints

- `POST /api/auth/register` - Register a new user
- `POST /api/auth/login` - Authenticate user and get JWT token

### Conversation Endpoints

- `GET /api/conversations` - Get all conversations for current user
- `POST /api/conversations` - Create a new conversation
- `GET /api/conversations/{id}/messages` - Get messages for a conversation
- `POST /api/conversations/{id}/messages` - Add a message to a conversation

### Chat Endpoint

- `POST /api/chat` - Send a message to the chatbot and get a response

### Order Endpoints

- `GET /api/orders` - Get all orders for the current user
- `GET /api/orders/{order_number}` - Get details for a specific order
- `GET /api/orders/{order_number}/status` - Get status of a specific order

- `POST /api/orders/{order_number}/cancel` - Cancel a specific order

## Order Generation

Generate test orders using the provided API endpoint or command-line tool:

```bash
# Generate 5 orders for all active users
python backend/generate_orders.py --num-orders 5
```

Available options:
- `--user-ids`: IDs of users to generate orders for (default: all active users)
- `--num-orders`: Number of orders to generate per user (default: 1)
- `--status`: Order status (default: random)
- `--min-items`: Minimum number of items per order (default: 1)
- `--max-items`: Maximum number of items per order (default: 5)
- `--days-ago`: Generate orders from this many days ago until now (default: 30)
